# Summary of results
Nathan Mowat, Chris Woodard, Jessica Wheeler, Bill Kerneckel  
July 7, 2016  



****************************

#### Table of Contents

[Back to Home](https://github.com/wkerneck/CaseStudy2)

* 9.0    [Summary of results](#id-section9)



****************************
<div id='id-section9.0'/>
#### 9.0 Summary of results
 
Planning was already unusually exact before we introduced forecasting methods out of Rob Hyndman's toolbox to Chulwalar.The situation was very challenging. Finally, our efforts brought up two models, which are able to compete with Chulwalar's planners:

We found one model based on trend, season, inflation and national holidays, which has a high explanatory potential and correlates highly with as-is-data on the one hand. A Holt-Winters model with trend and seasonality was able forecast more exactly than plan data in terms of percentual differences on the other hand.

Looking at the results from an explanatory perspective, the course of our analysis dropped too detailed additional economic indicators. That makes Chulwalar a rather unusual island and seems surprising first.
It might be the case, that this economy exports goods to a market, which very often just completely absorbes the goods.Internal planning has already a huge influence on the results under such circumstances. In this case, planning would more an independent statement on what is intended to do and less a reaction to market expectations. 

Anyway, the best performing models we found are either based on  historic sales only (as the Holt-Winters family) or only dependent on influences (as inflation), which are more general than the very specific economic indicators collected and explored at the beginning of this case study. 

Moreover, "traditional" planning in Chulwalar comes at a cost (as Chulwalar's experts conspiratively admitted). It keeps several persons busy over months. Pretty much of the forecasts by the models in this case study can be calculated automatedly instead.Planning in Chulwalar was a repeated effort with fine-grained monthly adjustments and guesses, whereas we are able to gain almost the same precision one year ahead in our simulation. 

We had to include almost every approach from the ones presented in Hyndman's fpp this time. But applying the successful models for future forecasts should be quick and easy. From the perspective of automated decision support, our case study suggests a lean approach to planning. 
